In order for DynamoDB to achieve high performance,
it spreads your data across many different partitions.
The attribute it uses on each item to decide which
partition to use is called the partition key,
also sometimes it's called the hash attribute.
This key is passed to an internal hash function,
and the output is used to assign the item to a partition.
This partition key must be unique in your table,
kind of like a traditional primary key.
There's another type of key schema you can use instead that
let's your partition key be non-unique, and that's by adding a sort key,
also sometimes called a range attribute.
In the case that you defined both of those keys,
Dynamo will use the partition key as input to the hash
function to find which partition to use,
and then it'll use the sort key to sort all the items
found at that partition location.
Both of these key schema types allow you to be very flexible
when defining how your table should work.
But sometimes a single set of keys isn't enough to properly query your data.
In this case, you can use a secondary index to provide alternate query methods.
There are two types of secondary indexes,
global secondary indexes and local secondary indexes.
Let's start by discussing global secondary indexes.
With a global secondary index,
you define a new key schema to organize your items and query on.
You could have a partition key schema or partition key plus sort key schema.
In addition, you'll define which attribute you want to include in the index.
If you query on the index, only selected attributes will be accessible.
In some ways,
Dynamo is just replicating the data and organizing it in a different way.
Another nice thing is that when you create a global secondary index,
you define new provisioned throughput capacity exclusively for the index.
When querying on that secondary index,
only the throughput configured for that secondary index is used.
A local secondary index is very different from a global one.
With a local secondary index,
you define an additional sort key to query data at
the partition level differently.
The original table's partition key is used in conjunction with the
local secondary index's sort key to query the data.
Additionally,
you don't create provisioned throughput capacity or define a set of attributes.
All of the base table's properties are carried over.
In many ways,
a local secondary index just enhances the original data where
a global one creates an exclusive new set.
And with both indexes,
Dynamo maintains them completely when adding or deleting items,
updating the indexes, and you don't have to do anything.
In the next clip,
we're going to put some of this information into practice as we create a DynamoDB table.